README.rst, before:

cmsplugin-text-wrapper
======================

A Django CMS plugin which extends and replaces the shipped text plugin with
simple wrapper functionalities.

Description
-----------

This plugin adds a simple wrapping functionality to the text plugin shipped with
django-cms. By adding this plugin, an editor may optionally choose a predefined
wrapper, which is rendered as template around the current content. This is
especially useful when working with predefined grids such as http://960.gs

This plugin is fully compatible with the default text plugin and offers all of
the current functionality. It shall therefore be used to replace the default
text plugin. It works together with both, the WYEditor as well as with the 
TinyMCE editor.

Dependencies
------------

* Django >= 1.3
* django-cms >= 2.3
* South >= 0.7

Installation
------------

add the plugin to ``INSTALLED_APPS``::

    INSTALLED_APPS = (
        ...
        'cmsplugin_text_wrapper',  # alternative to 'cms.plugins.text'
        ...
    )

and remove ``'cms.plugins.text'`` from ``INSTALLED_APPS`` if configured.

Then run ``manage.py migrate cmsplugin_text_wrapper`` to update your database
table ``cmsplugin_text``. This adds a column named ``wrapper``.

Restart your application. You may use all your text fields as before. They then
are marked for not using any wrapper and are rendered as before.

Usage
-----

In your ``settings.py`` add a tuple of tuples such as::

	CMS_TEXT_WRAPPERS = (
	    ('<wrapper name>', {
	        'render_template': '<template name>',
	        'extra_context': <a dictionary with extra context to render the template>
	    }),
	    ...
	)

``<wrapper name>`` is a unique name to identify the wrapper. The second part of
each wrappers tuple contains a directory with the following keys:

``render_template`` is the name of the template to be used when rendering the
content of this text plugin. This template can contain some optional html
tags but must contain the following template variable::

	{{ body|safe }}

which is replaced by the editors content.

If ``render_template`` is missing, the content of this text plugin is rendered
in the same way, as the default text plugin renders its content.

``extra_context`` is an optional dictionary containing any kind of data. The
context used to render the template is populated with this extra context.

This plugin does not change the admin interface, except for a pull down box on
top of the text editor. Using the default value is perfectly legal, in this case
the text wrapper plugin behaves exactly as the default text plugin as shipped
with **django-cms**.


The 960 pixel grid system 
-------------------------

One of the most widespread grid system is named http://960.gs . This plugin
interacts nicely with this grid, but does not depend on it.

The problem with the shipped text plugin is that an editor can add text, images,
etc. to a placeholder, but he gains no control over the layout of the given
container. Often this is desired behavior but sometimes it is annoying.

So, if an editor wants to use the 960 Grid System with, say 12 columns, a
template must be created for each possible combinations of rows. This can result
in specialized templates such as::

    <begin container------------12>
      <grid-------------9> <grid-3>
      <grid-------6> <grid-------6>
      <grid--4> <grid--4> <grid--4>
    <end container---------------->

where each grid container gets its own placeholder. If an editor needs many
similar layouts such as the one shown above, it can be hard to maintain all
possible combinations of rows and columns.

This **cmsplugin-text-wrapper** gives an editor of a CMS page a flexible and
clean way to add as many different rows, with as many different columns as he
wishes. Each of these columns can have their own widths.

If this grid system is enforced, the editor gains control over certain parts of
the layout without having to fiddle with div tags nor snippets.

Download the files ``reset.css``, ``text.css`` and ``960.css`` from http://github.com/nathansmith/960-Grid-System/zipball/master
and add them to your stylesheets.

In your templates directory, create a template named ``container-12.html``::

    ... other stuff goes here
    <div class="container_12">
        {% placeholder "Container Content" %}
    </div>
    ... more stuff goes here

and add it to your CMS_TEMPLATES tuple.

In your templates directory, create another template named ``grid.html``::

    <div class="{{grid_class}}">
        {{ body|safe }}
    </div>

and add it in different configurations to your ``CMS_TEXT_WRAPPERS`` tuples::

    CMS_TEXT_WRAPPERS = (
        ('Grid 3', {
            'render_template': 'grid.html',
            'extra_context': {'grid_class': 'grid_3'}
        }),
        ('Grid 6', {
            'render_template': 'grid.html',
            'extra_context': {'grid_class': 'grid_6'}
        }),
        ('Grid 12', {
            'render_template': 'grid.html',
            'extra_context': {'grid_class': 'grid_12'}
        }),
        ... and more ...
    )


text-plugin-ng
--------------
There is another plugin which works in a similar way to this one. It can be 
downloaded from https://github.com/KristianOellegaard/cmsplugin-text-ng .

**text-plugin-ng** is not intended to replace the default text plugin. It is
an add on to the text plugin as shipped with Django CMS and is not compatible
with it. Therefore an editor gets a choice of two text plugin, the one shipped
with Django CMS and **cmsplugin-text-ng**. For each placeholder he then has to
choose from one of those two.

Additionally the editor has to maintain two extra tables with named templates.

Commit message:

Added django-cms-columns to Readme

README.rst, after:

cmsplugin-text-wrapper
======================

A Django CMS plugin which extends and replaces the shipped text plugin with
simple wrapper functionalities.

Description
-----------

This plugin adds a simple wrapping functionality to the text plugin shipped with
django-cms. By adding this plugin, an editor may optionally choose a predefined
wrapper, which is rendered as template around the current content. This is
especially useful when working with predefined grids such as http://960.gs

This plugin is fully compatible with the default text plugin and offers all of
the current functionality. It shall therefore be used to replace the default
text plugin. It works together with both, the WYEditor as well as with the 
TinyMCE editor.

Dependencies
------------

* Django >= 1.3
* django-cms >= 2.3
* South >= 0.7

Installation
------------

add the plugin to ``INSTALLED_APPS``::

    INSTALLED_APPS = (
        ...
        'cmsplugin_text_wrapper',  # alternative to 'cms.plugins.text'
        ...
    )

and remove ``'cms.plugins.text'`` from ``INSTALLED_APPS`` if configured.

Then run ``manage.py migrate cmsplugin_text_wrapper`` to update your database
table ``cmsplugin_text``. This adds a column named ``wrapper``.

Restart your application. You may use all your text fields as before. They then
are marked for not using any wrapper and are rendered as before.

Usage
-----

In your ``settings.py`` add a tuple of tuples such as::

	CMS_TEXT_WRAPPERS = (
	    ('<wrapper name>', {
	        'render_template': '<template name>',
	        'extra_context': <a dictionary with extra context to render the template>
	    }),
	    ...
	)

``<wrapper name>`` is a unique name to identify the wrapper. The second part of
each wrappers tuple contains a directory with the following keys:

``render_template`` is the name of the template to be used when rendering the
content of this text plugin. This template can contain some optional html
tags but must contain the following template variable::

	{{ body|safe }}

which is replaced by the editors content.

If ``render_template`` is missing, the content of this text plugin is rendered
in the same way, as the default text plugin renders its content.

``extra_context`` is an optional dictionary containing any kind of data. The
context used to render the template is populated with this extra context.

This plugin does not change the admin interface, except for a pull down box on
top of the text editor. Using the default value is perfectly legal, in this case
the text wrapper plugin behaves exactly as the default text plugin as shipped
with **django-cms**.


The 960 pixel grid system 
-------------------------

One of the most widespread grid system is named http://960.gs . This plugin
interacts nicely with this grid, but does not depend on it.

The problem with the shipped text plugin is that an editor can add text, images,
etc. to a placeholder, but he gains no control over the layout of the given
container. Often this is desired behavior but sometimes it is annoying.

So, if an editor wants to use the 960 Grid System with, say 12 columns, a
template must be created for each possible combinations of rows. This can result
in specialized templates such as::

    <begin container------------12>
      <grid-------------9> <grid-3>
      <grid-------6> <grid-------6>
      <grid--4> <grid--4> <grid--4>
    <end container---------------->

where each grid container gets its own placeholder. If an editor needs many
similar layouts such as the one shown above, it can be hard to maintain all
possible combinations of rows and columns.

This **cmsplugin-text-wrapper** gives an editor of a CMS page a flexible and
clean way to add as many different rows, with as many different columns as he
wishes. Each of these columns can have their own widths.

If this grid system is enforced, the editor gains control over certain parts of
the layout without having to fiddle with div tags nor snippets.

Download the files ``reset.css``, ``text.css`` and ``960.css`` from http://github.com/nathansmith/960-Grid-System/zipball/master
and add them to your stylesheets.

In your templates directory, create a template named ``container-12.html``::

    ... other stuff goes here
    <div class="container_12">
        {% placeholder "Container Content" %}
    </div>
    ... more stuff goes here

and add it to your CMS_TEMPLATES tuple.

In your templates directory, create another template named ``grid.html``::

    <div class="{{grid_class}}">
        {{ body|safe }}
    </div>

and add it in different configurations to your ``CMS_TEXT_WRAPPERS`` tuples::

    CMS_TEXT_WRAPPERS = (
        ('Grid 3', {
            'render_template': 'grid.html',
            'extra_context': {'grid_class': 'grid_3'}
        }),
        ('Grid 6', {
            'render_template': 'grid.html',
            'extra_context': {'grid_class': 'grid_6'}
        }),
        ('Grid 12', {
            'render_template': 'grid.html',
            'extra_context': {'grid_class': 'grid_12'}
        }),
        ... and more ...
    )


There are other plugins which works in a similar way as **cmsplugin-text-wrapper**:

text-plugin-ng
--------------
Download from https://github.com/KristianOellegaard/cmsplugin-text-ng .

**text-plugin-ng** is not intended to replace the default text plugin. It is
an add on to the text plugin as shipped with Django CMS and is not compatible
with it. Therefore an editor gets a choice of two text plugin, the one shipped
with Django CMS and **cmsplugin-text-ng**. For each placeholder he then has to
choose from one of those two.

Additionally the editor has to maintain two extra tables with named templates.

django-cms-columns
------------------
Download from https://github.com/philomat/django-cms-columns

**django-cms-columns** offers support for the grid systems [YAML](http://www.yaml.de/en/documentation/practice/subtemplates.html) 
and [Blueprint](http://www.blueprintcss.org/) in the form of built in templates.

It does not seem to be supported any more.
